1. What is a dictionary in Python and what are its key characteristics?
answer: In Python, dictionaries are mutable data structures that allow you to store key-value pairs. 
        Dictionary can be created using the dict() constructor or curly braces' {}'. 
        Once you have created a dictionary, you can add, remove, or update elements using 
        the methods dict. update(), dict. pop(), and dict.
2. How do you create an empty dictionary in Python?
answer: first create a variable name which will be the name of the dictionary. 
        Then, assign the variable to an empty set of curly braces, {} .
3. How do you create a dictionary with initial key-value pairs in Python?
answer: Initialize Dictionary in Python: 7 Methods. 
        Method 1: Passing Key-Value Pairs as Literals. 
        Method 2: Using dict() constructor. 
        Method 3: Using Lists. 
        Method 4: Using Dictionary Comprehension. 
        Method 5: Using Tuples. 
        Method 6: Using the fromkeys()
        Method 7: Using a Generator Expression.
        Initialize an Empty Dictionary.
4. Can a dictionary contain duplicate keys in Python?
answer: Dictionary items are ordered, changeable, and do not allow duplicates.
5. How do you access values from a dictionary using keys in Python?
answer: A dictionary is quite a useful data structure in Python programming that is 
        usually used to hash a particular key with value so that it can be retrieved efficiently.
        To access an item in the dictionary, refer to its key name inside square brackets.
        1. Using key() Method
        2. Using values() Method
        3. Using an operator
        4. Using List Comprehension
        5. Using dict.items()
        6. Using enumerate() Method
        7. Using for loop and items() method
6. How do you add or update key-value pairs in a dictionary in Python?
answer: Methods to Add New Keys to a Dictionary
        1. Using the Bracket Notation. 
        One of the simplest ways to add a new key-value pair to a dictionary 
        is by using the bracket notation. ...
        2. Using the update() Method. ...
        3. Using the setdefault() Method. ...
        4. Using the fromkeys() Method. ...
        5. Using the dict() Constructor.
7. How do you remove key-value pairs from a dictionary in Python?
answer: ou can do so using the del keyword, which is the most common method of removing 
        a key-value pair from a dictionary. The pop() method is useful when we need to remove 
        a key-value pair and also get the value of the key-value pair. Using the popitem() function, 
        we can remove the final key-value pair in a dictionary.
8. Can you access elements from a dictionary using indexing in Python? Why or why not?
answer: you should convert the `dict_keys` object to a list or use iteration to work with the keys.
9. How do you find the number of key-value pairs in a dictionary in Python?
answer: Using the len() Function
        One of the easiest ways to find the length of a Python dictionary is by using 
        the built-in len() function. The len() function returns the number of key-value pairs in a dictionary.
10. How do you iterate over keys, values, and key-value pairs in a dictionary in Python?
answer: Iterating over both keys and values
        Now in case you need to iterate over both keys and values in one go, you can call items(). 
        The method will return a tuple containing the key value pairs in the form (key, value)
11. How do you check if a specific key exists in a dictionary in Python?
answer: Check If the Key Exists Using has_key() Method
        Using the has_key() method returns true if a given key is available in the dictionary, 
        otherwise, it returns a false. With the Inbuilt method has_key(), use the if statement to 
        check whether the key is present in the dictionary.
12. Can a dictionary have values of different data types in Python?
answer: Python allows the values in a dictionary to be any type – string, integer, a list, 
        another dictionary, boolean, etc.
13. How do you retrieve a list of all keys or values from a dictionary in Python?
answer: Use the keys() function and apply it to the input dictionary to get the list of all 
        the keys of a dictionary. Print the list of keys of a dictionary by traversing through 
        each key in the above keys list using the list comprehension and for loop.
14. Can you sort a dictionary in Python? If not, why?
answer: dictionaries remember the order of items inserted as well. Thus we are also able to 
        sort dictionaries using python's built-in sorted() function. Just like with other iterables, 
        we can sort dictionaries based on different criteria depending on the key argument of 
        the sorted() function.
15. How do you merge or combine two dictionaries in Python?
answer: There are various ways in which Dictionaries can be merged by using various 
        functions and constructors in Python. Below are some following ways:

        1. Using update()
        2. Using unpacking operator
        3. Using merge | operator
        4. Using loops and keys() method
        5. Using dict constructor
        6. Using the dict() constructor with the union operator (|)
        7. Using reduce()
16. How do you create a shallow copy or clone of a dictionary in Python?
answer: When we copy dictionaries in Python, using the copy() method, it returns a shallow 
        copy of the original dictionary. In other words, it uses the original as a reference 
        to create a new dictionary and does not make any changes in the original elements.
17. Can a dictionary have nested dictionaries as values in Python? 
    If yes, how do you access elements from nested dictionaries?
answer: Nesting Dictionary means putting a dictionary inside another dictionary. 
        Nesting is of great use as the kind of information we can model in programs is expanded greatly.
        In order to access the value of any key in the nested dictionary, use indexing [] syntax.
18. How do you clear or empty a dictionary in Python?
answer: Python Dictionary clear() Method
        The clear() method removes all the elements from a dictionary.
19. How do you convert a dictionary into a list or tuple in Python?
answer: steps:
        1. Initialize the dictionary.
        2. Sort the keys of the dictionary using the sorted() function.
        3. Use a for loop to iterate over the sorted keys and create a list of tuples where 
        the first element of each tuple is a key from the dictionary and the second element of each 
        tuple is the corresponding value from the dictionary.
20. What are some common use cases or advantages of using dictionaries in Python?
answer: Python dictionaries allow us to associate a value to a unique key, and then to quickly 
        access this value. It's a good idea to use them whenever we want to find (lookup for) a certain 
        Python object. We can also use lists for this scope, but they are much slower than dictionaries.